Oxc Transformer Alpha (#202)
oxc-project/oxc-project.github.io: src/blog/2024-09-29-transformer-alpha.md

The Oxc transformer (or transpiler) is now ready for experimentation.

This release contains two major features:

1. Transforming TypeScript and React JSX files to ESNext.
2. [TypeScript Isolated Declarations DTS Emit](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-5-5.html#isolated-declarations) (`tsc --isolatedDeclarations`).

In this alpha stage, we recommend to experiment these tools to speed up continuous integration time.

[Our Benchmark](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer) shows that:

- Transformation is 4x faster than swc, and 40x faster than Babel.
- Isolated Declarations DTS emit is x times faster than `tsc --noCheck --isolatedDeclarations`.

## Usage Examples

### [`oxc-transform`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oxc-transform) npm package

[@lukeed](https://github.com/lukeed) and [@maraisr](https://github.com/maraisr) are utilizing `oxc-transform`
for their packages
[`empathic`](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic) and [`dldr`](https://github.com/maraisr/dldr)
to transform and generate dts [in a single step](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic/blob/b83a360ff55051590dec19aa913cd12da97fa3f8/scripts/build.ts#L45-L52):

```javascript

> let xform = oxc.transform(entry, source, {
>   typescript: {
>     onlyRemoveTypeImports: true,
>     declaration: {
>       stripInternal: true,
>     },
>   },
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const transformed = oxc.transform(entry, source, {
  typescript: {
    onlyRemoveTypeImports: true,
    declaration: { stripInternal: true },
  },
});
const {
  code, // Transformed to JS
  declaration, // TS declaration `.d.ts`
} = transformed;
```

[@sxzz](https://github.com/sxzz) [reports](https://x.com/sanxiaozhizi/status/1821320327231893600) their `.d.ts` generation time is reduced from 76s to 16s.

### Bazel Build at [Airtable](https://github.com/Airtable)

[@michaelm](https://github.com/MichaelMitchell-at) from [Airtable](https://github.com/Airtable)
is integrating oxc's isolated declarations dts emit in their CI pipeline within their [bazel build](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/pull/697).

### Rust [`oxc_transformer`](https://crates.io/crates/oxc_transformer) crate

The [Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs) bundler uses the `oxc_transformer` crate [directly](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/3213e8fdb9e25f29295b6ec0d92fcc2ce03ce396/crates/rolldown/src/utils/pre_process_ecma_ast.rs#L67-L75).

## [Benchmark Results](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer)

On [GitHub Actions ubuntu-latest](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer/actions/workflows/ci.yml):

Using the following files:

- [TypeScript - parser.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/3ad0f752482f5e846dc35a69572ccb43311826c0/src/compiler/parser.ts) - an atypical large file with 10777 lines.

> - [vuejs -renderer.ts](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/cb34b28a4a9bf868be4785b001c526163eda342e/packages/runtime-core/src/renderer.ts) - a large library file with 2550 lines.

Reviewer: Nit. Add a space to match the rest.

```suggestion
- [vuejs - renderer.ts](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/cb34b28a4a9bf868be4785b001c526163eda342e/packages/runtime-core/src/renderer.ts) - a large library file with 2550 lines.
```

### Transform

```
oxc > parser.ts (14.8 ms)
  3.89x faster than swc (36.8 ms)
  45.38x faster than babel (474 ms)

oxc > renderer.ts (1.6 ms)
  4.26x faster than swc (7.3 ms)
  34.03x faster than babel (130 ms)

oxc > table.tsx (1.2 ms)
  4.57x faster than swc (4.2 ms)
  40.82x faster than babel (40 ms)
```

Oxc is 4x faster than swc, and 40x faster than Babel.

### Isolated Declarations

```
oxc > parser.ts
  16.33x faster than tsc

oxc > renderer.ts
  25.28x faster than tsc

oxc > table.tsx
  7.03x faster than tsc
```

Oxc is x faster than swc, and x faster than Babel.

## Package size

For package download size, oxc downloads two packages for a total of 2MB.

| Package                                                                                  | Size                                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64`                                                    | [1.95 MB](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64)                |

Reviewer: Nit. Leave off 1 decimal place so it looks visually smaller.

```suggestion
| `@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64`                                                    | [1.9 MB](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64)                |
```

[Our Benchmark](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer) shows that:

- Transformation is 4x faster than swc, and 40x faster than Babel.
- Isolated Declarations DTS emit is x times faster than `tsc --noCheck --isolatedDeclarations`.

## Usage Examples

### [`oxc-transform`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oxc-transform) npm package

vue.js is [experimenting](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/0895b2624b707ea1e75c41f2e1f75388e7a6f101/scripts/build-types.js#L20) with isolated declarations in their build pipeline.

```javascript
import { isolatedDeclaration } from "oxc-transform";
const dts = isolatedDeclaration(file, ts, { sourcemap: false });
```

[@lukeed](https://github.com/lukeed) and [@maraisr](https://github.com/maraisr) are utilizing `oxc-transform`
for their packages
[`empathic`](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic) and [`dldr`](https://github.com/maraisr/dldr)
to transform and generate dts [in a single step](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic/blob/b83a360ff55051590dec19aa913cd12da97fa3f8/scripts/build.ts#L45-L52).

The following example demonstrates emitting `.js` and `.d.ts` in a single transformation step:

```javascript
import { transform } from "oxc-transform";

> const transformed = transform(entry, source, {

Reviewer: I missed this first time around. What does "entry" mean?

```suggestion
const transformed = transform(filePath, sourceCode, {
```

---
title: Oxc Transformer Alpha
outline: deep
authors:
  - boshen
  - Dunqing
  - overlookmotel
---

<AppBlogPostHeader />

We are excited to announce an alpha release for Oxc transformer (a.k.a transpiler).

This release contains two major features:

1. Transforming TypeScript and React JSX files to ESNext.
2. [TypeScript Isolated Declarations DTS Emit](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-5-5.html#isolated-declarations) (`tsc --isolatedDeclarations`).

In this alpha stage, we recommend to experiment these features to significantly speed up continuous integration time.

[Our Benchmark](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer) shows that:

> - For transform, oxc is 4x faster than swc, uses 20% less memory, and is 35 MB smaller in package size (from swc's 37MB).
> - For transform, oxc is 40x faster than babel, uses 70% less memory, and is 19 MB smaller with 168 npm packages less to install.
> - For react development + refresh, oxc is 6x faster than swc and 70x faster than Babel.
> - For tsc's isolated declarations dts emit, oxc is 45x faster on ordinary files, and 20x faster on larger files.

Reviewer: Make capitalization consistent and clarify comparisons (well clearer in my opinion anyway):

```suggestion
- Transform: Oxc is 4x faster than SWC, uses 20% less memory, and has far smaller package size (2 MB vs SWC's 37 MB).
- Transform: Oxc is 40x faster than Babel, uses 70% less memory, and is 19 MB smaller, with only 2 npm packages to install vs Babel's 170.
- React development + React Refresh: Oxc is 6x faster than SWC, and 70x faster than Babel.
- TS isolated declarations `.d.ts` emit: Oxc is 45x faster than TSC on typical files, 20x faster on larger files.
```

## Usage Examples

### [`oxc-transform`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/oxc-transform) npm package

> vue.js is [experimenting](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/0895b2624b707ea1e75c41f2e1f75388e7a6f101/scripts/build-types.js#L20) with isolated declarations in their build pipeline.

Reviewer: Consistent capitalization.

```suggestion
Vue.js is [experimenting](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/0895b2624b707ea1e75c41f2e1f75388e7a6f101/scripts/build-types.js#L20) with isolated declarations in their build pipeline.
```

```javascript
import { isolatedDeclaration } from "oxc-transform";
const dts = isolatedDeclaration(filename, ts);
```

[@lukeed](https://github.com/lukeed) and [@maraisr](https://github.com/maraisr) are utilizing `oxc-transform`
for their packages
[`empathic`](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic) and [`dldr`](https://github.com/maraisr/dldr)

> to transform and generate dts [in a single step](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic/blob/b83a360ff55051590dec19aa913cd12da97fa3f8/scripts/build.ts#L45-L52).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to transform and generate `.d.ts` [in a single step](https://github.com/lukeed/empathic/blob/b83a360ff55051590dec19aa913cd12da97fa3f8/scripts/build.ts#L45-L52).
```

The following example demonstrates emitting `.js` and `.d.ts` in a single transformation step:

```javascript
import { transform } from "oxc-transform";
const transformed = transform(filePath, sourceCode, {
  typescript: {
    onlyRemoveTypeImports: true,
    declaration: { stripInternal: true },
  },
});
await fs.writeFile("out.js", transformed.code);
await fs.writeFile("out.d.ts", transformed.declaration);
```

### [`unplugin-isolated-decl`](https://github.com/unplugin/unplugin-isolated-decl)

`vue-macros` [uses](https://github.com/vue-macros/vue-macros/blob/4247c7ba9189c630111e058245ce1412c8da9229/tsup.config.ts#L10) `unplugin-isolated-decl` as the integration tool for its esbuild plugin.

[@sxzz](https://github.com/sxzz) [reports](https://x.com/sanxiaozhizi/status/1821320327231893600) their `.d.ts` generation time is reduced from 76s to 16s.

> ### Bazel Build at [Airtable](https://github.com/Airtable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bazel build at [Airtable](https://github.com/Airtable)
```

[@michaelm](https://github.com/MichaelMitchell-at) from [Airtable](https://github.com/Airtable)

> is integrating oxc's isolated declarations dts emit in their CI pipeline within their [bazel build](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/pull/697).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is integrating Oxc's isolated declarations `.d.ts` emit in their CI pipeline within their [Bazel build](https://github.com/aspect-build/rules_ts/pull/697).
```

### Rust [`oxc_transformer`](https://crates.io/crates/oxc_transformer) crate

> The [Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs) bundler uses the `oxc_transformer` crate [directly](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/3213e8fdb9e25f29295b6ec0d92fcc2ce03ce396/crates/rolldown/src/utils/pre_process_ecma_ast.rs#L67-L75).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs) bundler uses the `oxc_transformer` crate [directly](https://github.com/rolldown/rolldown/blob/3213e8fdb9e25f29295b6ec0d92fcc2ce03ce396/crates/rolldown/src/utils/pre_process_ecma_ast.rs#L67-L75).
```

## [Benchmark Results](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer)

On [GitHub Actions ubuntu-latest](https://github.com/oxc-project/bench-transformer/actions/workflows/ci.yml):

Using the following files:

> - [cal.com - UserSettings.tsx](https://github.com/calcom/cal.com/blob/20729b3a4e62c52f49419d2c3b30225f0c7a5936/apps/web/components/getting-started/steps-views/UserSettings.tsx) - a typical 124 lines of tsx code.
> - [TypeScript - parser.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/3ad0f752482f5e846dc35a69572ccb43311826c0/src/compiler/parser.ts) - an atypical large file with 10777 lines.
> - [vuejs - renderer.ts](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/cb34b28a4a9bf868be4785b001c526163eda342e/packages/runtime-core/src/renderer.ts) - a large library file with 2550 lines.
> - [AFFiNE - table.tsx](https://github.com/toeverything/AFFiNE/blob/a9b29d24f1f6e5563e43a11b5cbcfb30c9981d25/packages/frontend/core/src/components/affine/page-properties/table.tsx) - a tsx file with 1118 lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [cal.com - UserSettings.tsx](https://github.com/calcom/cal.com/blob/20729b3a4e62c52f49419d2c3b30225f0c7a5936/apps/web/components/getting-started/steps-views/UserSettings.tsx) - typical TSX file with 124 lines of code.
- [TypeScript - parser.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/3ad0f752482f5e846dc35a69572ccb43311826c0/src/compiler/parser.ts) - an atypically large TS file with 10777 lines.
- [Vue.js - renderer.ts](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/cb34b28a4a9bf868be4785b001c526163eda342e/packages/runtime-core/src/renderer.ts) - a large library file with 2550 lines.
- [AFFiNE - table.tsx](https://github.com/toeverything/AFFiNE/blob/a9b29d24f1f6e5563e43a11b5cbcfb30c9981d25/packages/frontend/core/src/components/affine/page-properties/table.tsx) - TSX file with 1118 lines.
```

### Transform

```
oxc > UserSettings.tsx (0.2 ms)
  5.62x faster than swc (0.7 ms)
  69.64x faster than babel (12.1 ms)

oxc > parser.ts (13.8 ms)
  3.72x faster than swc (35.8 ms)
  54.70x faster than babel (492.7 ms)

oxc > renderer.ts (1.7 ms)
  3.96x faster than swc (6.6 ms)
  30.35x faster than babel (55.2 ms)

oxc > table.tsx (1.0 ms)
  4.54x faster than swc (5.3 ms)
  59.54x faster than babel (58.5 ms)
```

> Oxc is 4x faster than swc, and 40x faster than Babel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oxc is 4x faster than SWC, and 40x faster than Babel.
```

### Isolated Declarations

```
oxc > UserSettings.tsx (0.09 ms)
  45.05x faster than tsc (14.0 ms)

oxc > parser.ts (3.7 ms)
  20.42x faster than tsc (96.0 ms)

oxc > renderer.ts (0.7 ms)
  21.70x faster than tsc (22.2 ms)

oxc > table.tsx (1.7 ms)
  7.24x faster than tsc (22.0 ms)
```

> Compared to tsc, oxc is 45x faster on small files, and 20x faster on larger files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to `tsc`, Oxc is 45x faster on small files, and 20x faster on larger files.
```

## Package size

> For package download size, oxc downloads two packages for a total of 2MB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oxc downloads only two npm packages, a total of 2MB.
```

| Package                                                                                  | Size                                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64`                                                    | [2.0 MB](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64)                 |
| `@swc/core-darwin-arm64`                                                                 | [37.5 MB](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@swc/core-darwin-arm64)                             |
| `@babel/core` + `@babel/preset-env` + `@babel/preset-react` + `@babel/preset-typescript` | [21 MB and 170 packages](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@oxc-transform/binding-darwin-arm64) |

## Memory Usage

Oxc uses less memory.

> On `parser.ts` (10777 lines) by using `/usr/bin/time -alh node`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memory usage transforming `parser.ts` (10777 lines) - measured using `/usr/bin/time -alh node`:
```

---
title: Oxc Transformer Alpha
outline: deep
authors:
  - boshen
  - Dunqing
  - overlookmotel
---

<AppBlogPostHeader />

We are excited to announce an alpha release for Oxc transformer (a.k.a transpiler).

This release contains three major features:

1. Transforming TypeScript to ESNext.
2. Transforming React JSX to ESNext, with built-in React Refresh.
3. [TypeScript Isolated Declarations DTS Emit](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-5-5.html#isolated-declarations) (`tsc --isolatedDeclarations`).

> In this alpha stage, we recommend to experiment these features to significantly speed up continuous integration time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this alpha stage, we recommend to experiment with these features to significantly speed up build times.
```
